>> Brian Holt: Let's talk about Vite.
And I did check it is pronounced that way,
you can call it Vite, but
it's supposed to be French for
quick, that's what I'm told.
I don't speak French.
So Vite, a pretty cool project
from the creator of Vue.
What I found kind of interesting about
Vite, it's not actually the bundler,
the bundler is Rollup, right?
And it has been since the beginning,
I think.
They just put a lot of much better
developer experience around Rollup,
cuz Rollup is a difficult thing
to tune and get working correctly.
Rollup is great, especially for bundling
modules and things that you're gonna
publish, but it's not made for developer
experience, it's made for performance.
It's why I taught Parcel for so
long as part of this course,
I still like Parcel,
you're very welcome to use Parcel.
But Vite has kinda just won at this point,
right?
Everyone tends to use just Vite.
There's not really a lot of questions,
the tooling around it just keeps
getting better and better.
You'll see when we get to
the testing part of it.
Vite makes Vitest very easy to use,
and they're just making it better.
They started a company around it now, and
they're going to change
from Rollup to Rolldown,
as their bundler, which is a rust
based bundler for JavaScript.
Kinda cool.
>> Brian Holt: So
it's gonna do a bunch of stuff for us.
Right now, we have one file being imported
into one index.html directory, and that
works with no build step, but now what
happens if we wanna have multiple files?
Right?
And we wanna import in and
we wanna pull in different libraries and
stuff like that, the complexity
just ratchets up exponentially.
And so Vite kinda helps us tame that down
to, you can just kind of read and write
files as if they were already present,
which ends up being really helpful.
>> Brian Holt: It makes pulling
things from NPM very easy and
it'll handle everything like minifying our
code, all the other optimizing techniques
that you don't really
wanna have to think about,
they've already thought about that for
you, so you don't have to worry about it.
So yeah previous versions we used Parcel,
awesome projects.
They also might use.
>> Brian Holt: Rollup, no, I think they
actually wrote their own bundler, so
anyway, Parcel is cool, and
the old mainstay webpack,
which has been around forever, right?
>> Brian Holt: So, we're gonna do this
though, we're gonna get vite@5.4.2 and
vite.js/plugin-react.
These are kind of our two minimum
requirements to get started with Vite.
>> Brian Holt: So
we're just gonna copy and
paste that in here
>> Brian Holt: And
that should install our stuff for us.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then what we're
gonna do here is we're gonna go to
index.html, close this for a second.
We wanna get rid of these two script tags.
>> Brian Holt: And then from here
you have to do one more thing.
You're gonna have to say type="module",
you need to let Vite know that you're
gonna be working with modules.
And actually, I don't think it
even works with common JS anymore.
They basically just said, look,
if you wanna be using Vite,
you got to be on ES modules.
That's what we've been talking
about this entire time.
That's so, shouldn't be a big deal.
But yeah, make sure you add that
type=module or it's gonna yell at you.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
now make a vite.config.js files.
>> Brian Holt: And we are going to do
import, defineConfig, not from Rollup.
>> Brian Holt: From Vite.
>> Brian Holt: We're going to import,
react from
@vitejs/plugin-react, cool.
And then we're going to
export default defineConfig.
>> Brian Holt: And we're gonna have
plugins, I just love this autocompletion.
>> Brian Holt: And it's gonna be an array.
We're gonna give it react, which is
a function that you have to invoke.
And you should end up
with something like this.
So at its most basic, Vite handles
most of this stuff out of the box so
you don't really have to
configure it very much.
The only thing that we have to say is,
this is a React project,
you're gonna have to do React type things,
and that's it.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
>> Brian Holt: Let's go
back to our terminal.
>> Brian Holt: And we're gonna do npm i,
or install whatever you want, but
not the dash capital D because we're going
to install some production dependencies,
not dev dependencies.
As a total side note, it really doesn't
matter very much cuz you're always gonna
build your project before
it goes out to production.
So whether it's the dev dependency or not,
everything gets installed every time,
but some people find that
distinction extremely important.
So npm install react,
we're gonna do @18.3.1 and
react-dom@18.3.1.
Now, people are asking me,
why are we not doing 19?
19 still is not officially stable yet,
it's in release candidate,
it's stable-ish, and we'll talk
about it at the end of the course.
But once react 19 is stable,
then we will come back and
we'll do a complete intro to React v10.
>> Brian Holt: Will this
course work with 19?
Almost certainly, they're not changing
very much they're not taking very much
out, everything that I am teaching
you today applies 100% to 19.
They've already told us all
the stuff they're taking out,
I'm not teaching you any of that stuff.
It's just that, so, extremely likely that
if 19 is out by the time that you're
watching this course, you could
just use 19, but if you do 18.3.1.
I can guarantee you everything
I tested with 18 and
also everything applies to 19, so have no
fear of taking this even with react 18.
>> Brian Holt: Interesting, what's- says
that there's a security vulnerability.
By the way,
by the time that you watch this course,
there will certainly be lots
of security vulnerabilities.
That's very normal, I'm not telling you to
install a Bitcoin miner on your computer,
just mine, not anyone else's, right?
So don't worry too much about that.
If you want to,
you can see if npm audit fix will work.
Sometimes it doesn't, look, we did, I did
it, we fixed it, I fixed the Internet.
All right.
>> Brian Holt: All this does is
it goes and finds a package, sees
if there's a patch version that's
available that just fixes the problem.
If it does, then it installs that,
that's all it does.
Okay, let's go use Vite.
>> Brian Holt: So we're gonna
go to our source directory, and
the first thing I wanna do here is we have
deleted these script tags from our html,
so that means React is no longer
available in our project, right?
So in app.js we're going to go import
'react' so that we can use it.
We're gonna say import React from
react and import .
>> Brian Holt: From 'react-dom'.
And then down here, I think we'll
have to go delete the ReactDOM.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so Vite will take
care of plugging in React here so
that all these React references
will now work, right?
And when you have no curly braces here,
this means import the entire library
as one top-level object, right?
Or maybe a different way of saying
is import whatever the library
author has designated as the default
export of whatever React is.
And I will say that's normally all
of the things as one giant object,
but it doesn't have to be.
And then this is called a named import,
where you're saying go to
the ReactDOM library and
only get the createRoot function
in this particular case.
That's what those curly braces mean.
This is a default export,
this is a named export.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
First of all, one of the cool things is,
I think we fixed lint.
I think if you say npm run lint,
you should get no errors now because
now there's no globals, right?
We know where everything is coming from.
>> Brian Holt: So that's pretty cool.
>> Brian Holt: And
now let's go and make it so
that we can actually run Vite
to actually run our server.
So I want you to go to your package.json,
and
we're gonna add a couple more
things into our scripts.
>> Brian Holt: I don't know why I have
a habit of keeping these alphabetized, but
it just became a compulsion one day and
I just never stopped it.
So build, vite build.
>> Brian Holt: Dev, vite and
preview is vite,
>> Brian Holt: Preview.
>> Brian Holt: Some people might say,
well, this looks better like this,
I don't know.
Honestly, it doesn't really
matter what the order here,
whatever you wanna do is fine with me.
So let's talk about these
commands we put in here.
Nine times out of ten, when you come
to your local development environment,
you're just gonna say Vite and
you're just gonna get going, so
you can do npm run dev and
start your project.
>> Brian Holt: I have such strong
muscle memory to go do npm run dev for
any project I get into that I make sure
that that's always the command that I
wanna run.
[LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Build, this is something
that you would run in a GitHub action
that would actually build the project
into static assets and such, that then
you could ship off to Vercel or AWS or
Netlify or Fly or something like that,
and you could serve those from there.
And then preview is kind
of an interesting one.
I don't know if you've ever had a bug that
only seemed to manifest whenever you built
the project,
as opposed to run it on the dev server,
preview aims to help with that.
It's like, I'm gonna build this for
production, and then I'm gonna serve it
to as if this was a production box to
help you kinda figure out those problems.
So I almost never use it, but when I
do need to use it, I'm glad it's there.
>> Brian Holt: And then one more thing,
make sure you add a "type": "module".
>> Brian Holt: Again,
the order here is not important.
>> Brian Holt: This is just telling
any tool that uses your project,
this uses ES modules, as opposed to using
common JS, which is the "require" style.
>> Brian Holt: So
that can be helpful as well.
>> Brian Holt: All right,
so, now in theory,
npm run dev, she gets something
that looks somewhat akin to this.
>> Brian Holt: So
you might be wondering, why 5173?
I did two, that's why I went looked it up,
what's five in roman numerals?
V.
V, do you get it now?
[LAUGH] V-I-T-E.
Roman numerals and lead speak.
Yeah, I was like,
that's a stretch for sure, guys.
[LAUGH] Yeah, but
you can see now this all still works
exactly the way that it was before, but
now we're using imports from for our React
stuff, and it's being served on 5173.
So go back to app.js.
>> Brian Holt: And I fixed it here
already, but you see react-dom,
this is originally what I had in here,
the ReactDOM.
You just need to put react-dom/client.
This is the old way of writing it, this
is the way that people used to write it,
which is why it's still
kind of burned in my brain.
And I think it'll work through React 18,
but they might break it in React 19 or
React 20 or something like that.
So just put react-dom/client and
everything should work.